
                         SPLIT & SCROLL MACRO
                                 for
                          The Semware Editor

             Macro      : SAS
             Name       : Split and Scroll Windows
             Version    : 3.2
             Build      : 08
             Date       : 20.07.1998
             Author     : Alex S Wilson
             Parts      : Semware Corporation
             Environment: TSE Pro/32 version 2.80b


  CONTENTS

  1. Introduction
  2. Disclaimer
  3. Requirements
  4. Function
  5. Packing List
  6. Installation
  7. Video Mode
  8. Operation
  9. Menu Mode
  10. TSE.ini File
  11. Using the Mouse
  12. Notes on AutoScrolling
  13. Notes on Compiling
  14. Known Problems
  15. Future Developments
  16. Contact
  17. Version Details


1. INTRODUCTION


The following document provides notes on the Split and Scroll Macro.
I have written and continue to develop the SAS macro as an exercise in
the use of the Semware Application Language. However it is a functional
macro which I use daily and have attached to my Autoload list. Hope you
find it useful for whatever purpose.

To find out whatsnew in this release please refer to the version details
at the end of this document.

I would also be grateful if you could drop me an e-mail if you have tried
SAS. Any comments and suggestions for coding or features are very welcome.
It is also nice to know just where the macro ends up.

See the Contact section of this document for information on how to contact
me.


2. DISCLAIMER


Use this macro and associated code entirely at your own risk. The author
accepts no responsibility for loss or damage resulting from the use of the
macros and code.


3. REQUIREMENTS


To use the SAS macro you need the The SemWare Editor Pro/32 v2.8. The
macro uses commands specific to TSE/32 version 2.8.

SAS version 2.9 and above will only compile using TSE Pro/32 v2.8 and
SC32.exe.

SAS version 2.6 is available for for TSE Pro/32 v2.6.

SAS version 2.2 was the last public release of the macro which will run
with TSE v2.5.

4. FUNCTION


The SAS macro will horizontally or vertically split the screen into
windows if more than one file is opened (one window per file). When
the windows have been split simultaneous vertical or horizontal scrolling
in each of them is available.

Two modes of scrolling are available, KEY and AUTO;

1. Key Scrolling allows scrolling of multiple windows using the keyboard
   to control it.
2. Auto Scrolling allows the the text in multiple windows to be scrolled
   automatically at variable speeds without having to touch the keyboard
   - except to stop it.
   The speed of autoscrolling can be adjusted while scrolling is taking
   place.
   Auto Scrolling can also be used in one window.

In addition to the two modes of scrolling, one of three types of scrolling
can be selected (Scroll, Roll or Page). In Auto mode each type of scroll
will scroll continuously until the End of File is reached or the user aborts
it. However, the number of lines or pages to be scrolled at a time can also
be set. See Operation Section for more information.

SAS has been designed to work best with 2 files at present mainly
because, if more than two files/windows are open, editing/reading is not
that easy! However, this can be changed by increasing the variable
"Maximum Files to Split" in the SAS menu but things can get untidy.
The macro does make a crude attempt to resize the windows if more than three
files are split.

Various options can be changed in the SAS menu. These options are written
to a initialisation file called TSE.ini under the section name of [SAS].
The TSE.ini file should be located in your TSE32 directory and is created
on the first "save settings" of SAS if it does not exist.

All items marked [] in the menu are saved to the TSE.ini file.


5. PACKING LIST


The following files should be included in the SASxyz.zip file;
Where xyz denotes the version of SAS.

        File_ID.diz     - File Information
        SAS.s           - Split and Scroll Macro source file.
        SAS.txt         - This file.
        SAS.hlp         - Text help file.
        SAS.mac         - Compiled version of SAS.s for TSE/32

(x = Version, y = Feature revision, z = Build)


6. INSTALLATION


Copy the SAS.mac file into a location specified in the TSEPath of TSE.

The macro can now be executed from the command line or run from within TSE.
It can also be added to the Potpourri list.

Optional:

I have included separate help and document files to keep the macro as small
as possible.
Both the help and document files can be viewed from the Help menu. To do this
the sas.hlp and/or sas.txt files should be copied to a location specified in
the TSEpath of TSE. Please note that SAS will work perfectly well without the
help or document files installed.

If you choose not to install the help or document files or if they are
installed in a location other than the TSEPath then the menu options for
these items will be unavailable.


7. VIDEO MODE

If an error is issued indicating the menu is too large when using the macro
in "Single" menu mode, you can use CtrlAlt M to toggle to the bar menu mode
in which no such problems are encountered.

The single menu needs the editor to be in 28 line mode or greater.


8. OPERATION


F11 will call a menu from which the following options can be chosen;

Windows:
CtrlAlt S               Will Toggle the Split Windows feature.
Split Type              This toggles horizontal or vertical window splitting.
                        The macro defaults to the last saved setting.

Maximum Files to Split  This sets the number of files that SAS will attempt
                        to split when the Split command is issued or when
                        macro is loaded.
Minimum Files to Split  This option allows a minimum number of files to
                        split to be specified. If set to 1 then 1 file can
                        be split into two windows.
Split When Loaded       Setting determines if the files are split into
                        windows when the macro or file is loaded.
Switch Windows/Files    This option allows you switch between each file or
                        window that is open. Shift TAB or ALT N can be used.
                        The ALT N key is normally used to switch between
                        files and has been enhanced to switch between any
                        windows that are open.

Scrolling:
Scroll Type             This option allows you to toggle between
                        Roll:   uses RollUp(), RollDown(),
                                     RollRight(), RollLeft()
                        Scroll: uses ScrollUp(), ScrollDown()
                                     ScrollRight(), ScrollLeft()
                        Page:   uses PageUp(), PageDown()

Scroll Lines/Pages      0 will enable continuous scrolling in all modes of
                        scroll type. Any other value entered equals the
                        number of lines that will be scrolled before
                        stopping. If Scroll Type = Page then the number is
                        equal to the number of pages scrolled.

Reset Scroll Lines      This option is only available when scroll lines is
                        greater than 0. The option determines if the counter
                        is reset if the user aborts the autoscrolling. ie if
                        scrolllines = 20 and the user aborts the scroll at 9,
                        if reset scroll lines is NO, the next autoscroll
                        will start from 10. If YES, scrolling will start from
                        0.

Key Scroll Options:     SubMenu

Shift                  Scroll the text in the windows up simultaneously.
Shift                  Scroll the text in the windows down simultaneously.
Shift                  Scroll the text in the windows to the right simultaneously.
Shift                  Scroll the text in the windows to the left simultaneously.

Auto Scroll Options:    SubMenu

Set AutoScroll Speed    Controls the speed of autoscrolling.
                        Changes are applicable in current editing session.
                        The higher the number the faster the scrolling.

Ctrl                   Auto Scroll the text in the current window up.
Ctrl                   Auto Scroll the text in the current window down.
Ctrl                   Auto Scroll the text in the current window to the right.
Ctrl                   Auto Scroll the text in the current window to the left.

Ctrl PgUp               Auto Scroll the text in all windows up.
Ctrl PgDn               Auto Scroll the text in all windows down.
Ctrl Alt               Auto Scroll the text in all windows to the right.
Ctrl Alt               Auto Scroll the text in all windows to the left.

Keys:
Ctrl Alt K              This is included because Ctrl PgUp and Ctrl PgDn
                        have other useful standard file navigation
                        functions in TSE. If the keys are set to OFF the
                        scrolling functions can still be used from within
                        the menu.
General:
Save Current Settings   This option saves the current settings to the
                        TSE.ini file which is used everytime SAS is
                        loaded.
Save Settings on Exit   Toggle to save the macro settings when the editor is
                        exited.
Menu Mode   CtrlAlt M   Use Single or Bar menus.
Ctrl Alt H              Views help file if installed. See Installation
View Macro Document     Views the macro document file if installed. The document
                        file can only be viewed when using the bar menu.

About                   Tells you what you are using and how to contact me.
                        Pressing the <SpaceBar> to exit from the About window
                        will display macro settings/debug information.

Other keys:

-                       Reduces the autoscroll speed when autoscrolling is
                        in progress.
+ or =                  Increases the autoscroll speed when autoscrolling is
                        in progress.
Esc                     Interrupt AutoScrolling. (not shown in Menu)

Menu items that have [ ] displayed are showing the current status for that
option. When these options are changed a message confirming the change is
issued on the status line. These messages are cleared automatically on the
next keypress or menu selection.

Note: All items that have [] displayed are saved in TSE.ini which is used
everytime the macro is loaded.

The above options are available in both the single and bar menu modes. The
ability to view this document file if installed as above is available from
the bar menu.

Help for each for menu option is also displayed on the help line when each
option is highlighted.


9. MENU MODE

There are two modes of menu available; single and bar. Both modes give all
of the options as indicated in the "Operation section" of this document,
however the bar mode gives the following additional options:

File Menu - Menu Close:

This option allows the menus to close following selection of "toggle" items.
For example, the Split Type toggles between horizontal or vertical. With
menu close option set to "No", the menu will remain open for further action.
If menu close is set to "Yes", the menu will close when the item is toggled.

Only a few menu items are affected by this but it can make the use of the
macro quicker. The following items are currently affected;

        Split Type
        Split When Loaded
        Scroll Keys

The default option is No.

Help Menu - View Macro Document:

If you have installed the macro document as described in the installation,
it can be viewed using this option. if the document is not installed, the
menu item will be "grayed" and unavailable.


10. TSE.ini FILE

TSE/32 makes use of the tse.ini macro macro which is execellent for
maintaining macro startup parameters etc. Most of my macros make use of the
ini file.


11. USING THE MOUSE

When using Autoscroll, pressing and holding any mouse key will pause the
scrolling. While paused, pressing the other mouse button will scroll the
windows by one line/page at a time.
Releasing the mouse button will cause the AutoScrolling to continue.


12. NOTES ON AUTOSCROLLING

Auto scrolling will stop in all files when the end of the current file is
reached. The current file is the one with the active cursor.
The macro checks for the end of file (EOF). When the EOF is reached, auto
scrolling in both windows stops. Therefore if the current file is smaller
that the one in the other window or you start autoscrolling at a
position further into the current file than the other, auto scrolling will
stop when the end of the current file is reached.


13. NOTES ON COMPILING


Intentionally left blank.


14. KNOWN PROBLEMS

If the Main() proc is used with the WhenLoaded() proc, problems are
encountered with Disable of SASKeysScroll keydef. ie CtrlAlt K.

Window Resize: version 3.2.04 contains my initial attempt at window
resizing. It is very crude at the moment but better than the TSE default.
I will continue to improve this facility. Any comments would be welcomed.


15. FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS

        * Fix the Autoscroll stop problem.


16. CONTACT


I can be contacted as follows;

Internet:       alex.s.wilson@btinternet.com

www:            http://www.btinternet.com/~alex.s.wilson/


17. VERSION DETAILS


The latest version of this macro can be obtained from my homepage at;

www:            http://www.btinternet.com/~alex.s.wilson/

I will generally post the latest version there before releasing it to the
Semware ftp site.


Version  Date      Details/Comments

3.2     20.07.98   Updated About box with new email.(08)
                   Internal code changes, not released.(07)
        02.06.98   Added Save Settings on Exit option.(06)
                   Revised help and document files.(06)

        22.05.98   Revised Message structure.(05)
                   Fixed Message bug on split Windows
                   minimum files.(05)

        26.04.98   Added window resize feature.(04)
                   Added facility to toggle menu close after
                   selection of item.(04)
                   Revised help and document files.(04)
                   Fixed split windows bug.(03)

        18.04.98   Added Scroll Speed message for dynamic
                   speed control of scrolling.(02)
                   Released on homepage.


        12.03.98   Fixed mousekey pause function.(01)
                   Released.

        22.02.98   Build 00 released.

        16.02.98   Fixed macro date in SAS.txt details! Updated
                   SAS.txt for additional facilities.
                   Added support for continuous speed control
                   using "-" and "+" keys during autoscroll.(00)
                   Enhanced and renamed ScrollAbortCheck() proc to
                   ScrollCtrlCheck(). (00)
                   Development release on homepage.

3.1     10.02.98   Fixed set maximum/minimum files bug. Improved
                   error checking.(05)

        20.12.97   Revised autoscroll delay/speed setting procs,
                   now ask for speed instead of delay.(04)
                   Removed integration with IB.mac.(04)

        20.11.97   Updated menus and revised menu flags for
                   tse.ini backup.(03)
        17.11.97   Added Flag to integrate macro with IB.mac
                   which is used to backup the tse.ini file on
                   every save settings.(02)
                   Updated Help and Document files.(02)
                   Posted sas3102.zip as development on Homepage.

         22.09.97  Added Scroll Lines reset option. (01)
                   Added proc to set menu flags. (01)
                   Revised menu for GRAYED options. (01)
                   Updated menus and ScrollAbortCheck. (01)
                   Update help and Document files. (01)
                   Fixed keydef bug. (01)
                   Revised naming convention for help
                   and doc files. (01)
                   Added extension variables. (01)
                   Renamed VarInfo() proc to MPVInfo(). (01)
         16.09.97  Enhanced Split on Load to work on file
                   load. (r00)
                   Updated help and document files. (00)
                   Replaced Main() with WhenLoaded() proc. (00)
                   Re-introduced Startup() proc. (r00)
                   Released (00) on Homepage.

3.0      08.08.97  Added horizontal scrolling support. (r00)
                   Revised menus for horizontal scrolling. (r00)
                   Revised single menu. (r00)
                   Moved AutoScroll Delay option in menu. (r00)
                   Updated help and document files. (r00)
                   Released for TSE/32 v2.8 (Homepage/ ftp.semware.com)

2.9      06.08.97  Revised Scroll Type selection menu operation. (r02)
                   Revised About box. (r02)
                   Removed StartUp() proc. (r02)
                   Updated for TSE/32 v2.8 (r02)
                   Added MenuType toggle key CtrlAlt M. (r02)
                   Cosmetic Changes. (r01)
                   Enhanced Scroll Type menu. (r01)
                   Revised terminology and variable names. (r01)
                   Improved error checking. (r01)
                   Released (r02) for TSE/32 v2.8 (On homepage only)

2.8      16.05.97  Fixed about window bug. (r13)
                   Added Help and Document view options. (r12)
                   Added number of lines/pages to scroll option. (r11)
                   Added scroll mode selection option. (r11)
                   Added direction indicator for rationalisation of
                   scrolling code. Reduced number of procs. (r10)
                   Added code to switch between windows or files.
                   Added bar type menu selection.
                   Added alternate keys for switching windows.
                   Enhanced Split on Load option to split on macro and
                   window load.
                   Updated help.
                   Cosmetic Changes.
                   Released (r12) for TSE/32 only.

2.7      14.12.96  Development version.

2.6      10.11.96  Updated for TSE Pro/32.
                   Released version.

2.5f     18.06.96  Revised to use INI macro and TSEPro.ini file for
                   settings. Added key assignment for toggling scroll
                   keys. Fixed Save Settings bug.
                   Development version.

2.4      24.02.96  Revised to use a configuration file for startup
                   values. Not released.
                   Development version.

2.3      -         Updated for TSE 2.5. Not released.
                   Development version.

2.2      26.06.95  Added facility to change the type of window split,
                   horizontal or vertical. Changed key assignments.
                   Changed Scroll Delay procedure. Added pause facility to
                   AutoScroll using the mouse. Recoded AutoScroll procs
                   to check for abort or pause request.
                   Released version.

2.1      10.06.95  Changed Menu text and added status indicators.
                   Development version.

2.0      13.05.95  Public Release Version.




                               ษอออออออป
                               บ  Eck  บ
                               ศอออออออผ



