                                 BULLET.S v1.1

                   Bulleted list support for wordwrap macros.


        û NEW! in v1.1:
	        ù In/Outdenting of whole bullet points by hitting <Tab> or
	          <Shift Tab> while on the first line of the bullet point.
            ù Using the Bullet Menu (<Ctrl B>) while in a bullet point
              changes the bullet style for that point. This feature is
              great for changing the bullet style for subpoints, etc.
            ù Use ExecMacro("bullet -m") to bring up Bullet Menu from a
              within a macro.
            ù Outlining!

        I.    OUTLINING!  (NEW! in v1.1)
              A.    It's easy to use numbered lists (outlines).
                    1)    Just pop up the Bullet Menu.
                    2)    Select your outline style.
              B.    Type away!
              C.    Use the Options menu to change the outlining
                    settings.
                    (i)   They should be self-explanatory.
                    (ii)  If they're not, well... sorry.
              D.    To renumber a sequence, select Renumber from the
                    Bullet Menu.
                    <a>   When you change the outline style of a
                          paragraph, the outline points following it are
                          automatically renumbered.
                    <b>   When you add or insert new outline points, the
                          new point is automatically numbered, and the
                          following points are renumbered.

        þ This macro adds bulleted list support to TSE. It also helps
          wordwrap macros support bulleted lists so they don't trash
          bulleted lists.

        þ Just hit <Ctrl B> to access the handy Bullet Menu and select
          the bullet character you want to use. If you're using
          WordWrap, the <Enter> key will automatically insert another
          bullet character, making bulleted lists a breeze! If you use
          BULLET instead of WrapPara() when doing wordwrap, your
          bulleted lists will even get automatically indented! And best
          of all, BULLET prevents wordwrap from destroying your bulleted
          lists. It figures out the first and last lines of the bullet
          point you're editing and only wraps those lines.

        þ Also enclosed is a macro called AUTOWRAP. This macro uses
          BULLET to wordwrap as you type, automatically adding a hanging
          indent to bulleted lists as you type. You may need to remove
          another autowrap macro before loading AUTOWRAP, or you might
          even have to modify your .UI file to remove existing autowrap
          support.

        þ Also enclosed is a macro called INI. This macro allows other
          macros to save their settings in a common TSEPRO.INI file in
          the Main TSE directory.

        þ This macro is designed as a wrapper for your current wordwrap
          macro. It's as easy as replacing the call to your wordwrap
          macro (or WrapLine() or WrapPara() command). Anywhere you use
          WrapPara(), instead use ExecMacro("bullet -p"). Anywhere you
          use WrapLine(), instead use ExecMacro("bullet -l"). Anywhere
          you use ExecMacro("foo -x"), instead use ExecMacro("bullet foo
          -x"). BULLET will work great with most wordwrap macros, and
          will work beautifully with any wordwrap macro that respects
          marked blocks.

        þ Keys:
            ù <Ctrl B> - Bullet menu
            ù <Enter> - Automatically continue a bulleted list or
              outline (if WordWrap is ON or _AUTO_)
            ù NOTE:  To disable either the bullet menu or autobulleting,
              just set the corresponding #define to 0 in BULLET.S

        þ You can add new bullet characters to the bullet menu. Just
          make sure you remember to add them to the "bullets" string.

        þ Known goofiness:
			ù In astronomically rare cases, paragraph reformatting may
              not reformat a whole paragraph or bullet point. This
              happens if the first word on a line looks like a bullet
              character or like an outline number.
			ù There must be whitespace (spaces or hard tabs) between the
			  bullet character and the text of the bullet point. If you
              accidentally remove the whitespace and then reformat the
              paragraph (bullet point), BULLET will think it is part of
              the bullet point above it, and the reformat will join the
              bullet points. (It's easy to undo, though).

        þ Real cool thing:
            ù BULLET's <Enter>, <Tab>, and <Shift Tab> key handlers
              should interact well with other macros, since they use
              ChainCmd() to pass control along. In my personal TSE
              configuration, I currently have four macros bound to the
              <Tab> key, and two to <Enter>. They all work great
              together.

        þ Happy bulleting and outlining!
            ù You can reach me at Chris Antos, chrisant@microsoft.com,
              and I'll try to reply in a timely manner. (For my own
              protection, the only I'll promise a reply. ...Mm, better
              not even promise that, although I will try).

